---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-12-08
title: DID WG Topic Call on finishing the Security and Privacy Questionnaire — 2020-12-08
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020-12-08-did-topic",
        "name": "DID WG Topic Call on finishing the Security and Privacy Questionnaire — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Topic Call on finishing the Security and Privacy Questionnaire",
        "dateCreated": "2020-12-08",
        "datePublished": "2020-12-09",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Topic Call on finishing the Security and Privacy Questionnaire",
            "startDate": "2020-12-08",
            "endDate": "2020-12-08",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kyle Den Hartog"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Drummond Reed"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Juan Caballero"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kaliya Young"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# DID WG Topic Call on finishing the Security and Privacy Questionnaire — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2020-12-08

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/mid/CAHR74YVEzh5TNHFLtZEy9EOa43p7sL9yc2xRiWW-J0vUqEviBw@mail.gmail.com) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/12/08-did-topic-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Kyle Den Hartog, Shigeya Suzuki, Markus Sabadello, Adrian Gropper, Drummond Reed, Juan Caballero, Joe Andrieu, Manu Sporny, Orie Steele, Kaliya Young, Ted Thibodeau Jr.

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Joe Andrieu

---


> *Adrian Gropper:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/13qLCZcks3OAb2V7GHcrSs8s9drA5OaqEPYPI1knmodc/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13qLCZcks3OAb2V7GHcrSs8s9drA5OaqEPYPI1knmodc/edit#)

**Drummond Reed:** re: note at the beginning.  
… I'll work on it now and we can come back  

**Adrian Gropper:** Tom Jone's comment  

**Joe Andrieu:** agreed. non-correlatable identifiers are not a thing  

**Manu Sporny:** can we just strike?  

**consensus:** yep  

**Adrian Gropper:** next  

**Joe Andrieu:** I don't understand how the comment relates to the highlighted section of text  
… I see, if we can keep the PII out, we can minimize the lawyers  

**Adrian Gropper:** next  

**Shigeya Suzuki:** based on Orie's comment, we can remove my question.  

**Orie Steele:** perhaps though, we should add more text about how services might be related to sensitive information  

**Shigeya Suzuki:** common understanding is that the type is clearly defined; as an outsider, that wasn't clear.  

**Orie Steele:** one suggestion would be to say that we have many types of verification methods. maybe we need some concrete service types to help illustrate what we are talking about.  
… the fact that there is a way to distinguish them is enough for me.  

**Adrian Gropper:** ok. moving on.  
… Manu could you take a stab at replying to Tom's items?  

**Manu Sporny:** sure.  

**Adrian Gropper:** LD security. Can we downgrade security settings?  

**Joe Andrieu:** seems like we don't provide any mechanisms for downgrading default browser security mechanisms  

**Adrian Gropper:** next  

**Orie Steele:** public key representations and signature suites are different things  
… this used to have some different text that I was responding to. I think we can just dismiss the comment completely.  

**consensus:** yes, let's resolve  

**Adrian Gropper:** next  
… accepting suggestions on passive network attacks  
… next are some easy ones (resolving)  
… more editorial changes (resolving)  

**Joe Andrieu:** we should probably say that DID Methods and DID Resolution, which define the protocols over the network, are subject to active attacks, however this specification does not define anything subject to such attacks.  

**Adrian Gropper:** can we move on?  

**Orie Steele:** looks great  

**Adrian Gropper:** next  

**Manu Sporny:** we should talk about that 51% attack #  
… should really be something like 2f+1  

**Joe Andrieu:** something that the problem applies to methods that rely on consensus  

**Adrian Gropper:** we're good?  

**consensus:** yep  

**Adrian Gropper:** next  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** I'm good with Orie's adjustments  

**Adrian Gropper:** I'm accepting it  

> *Joe Andrieu:* agropper 3.4 also?

**Orie Steele:** yep that's a continuation of Kyle's items  

**Adrian Gropper:** next, legitimate misuse  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** this is calling out that you can publish things about the user, that's still a misuse  

**Orie Steele:** disclosing any information you aren't the rightful controller of, is a legitimate misuse.  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** yes, let's call out that distinction  

**Orie Steele:** note there is a link explaining the meaning of legitimate misuse  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** we might want to call out contexts that use unique identifiers to identifier resolution of the did document  
… that is if you copy the context into your DID Document, you can trigger a resolution to that context  

**Orie Steele:** mugshots use case  
… about the intention to provide types for DIDs that are incorrect  
… that is the assignment of attributes that are not under the control of the controller  
… e.g., MS allows the assignment of a type property like "software package", which can be abused by a controller assigning the wrong type  
… There is a general category for software services that are safe harbors for criminal activity. Any public DID method is at risk for such consideration.  

**Drummond Reed:** this is not something specific to DIDs  
… because DIDs are associated with a quality of immutability, it accentuates the potential for that kind of abuse  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** we inherit these issues when methods are ledger based  

**Adrian Gropper:** next  

**Orie Steele:** yes, we address data minimization. tell them to read the friendly spec  

**Drummond Reed:** data minimization is an important consideration in this specification and we cover it extensively  

**Adrian Gropper:** next: 4.2  

**Orie Steele:** this is pretty good. the piece about the spec registries maybe should be bolded.  
… anytime you take an extension your are extending the privacy set of considerations  

**Adrian Gropper:** ok. next  

**Orie Steele:** we can maybe remove the link, if someone can vet that the URL supports the assertion.  

**consensus:** yep.  

**Adrian Gropper:** next  

**Joe Andrieu:** drop the feature should include any protocols. we dropped that to focus on a data model spec  
… perhaps listing all of the features that are optional, which are mechanisms to "drop the feature" as appropriate.  

**Adrian Gropper:** this is the last thing, modulo comments that came in above since our last meeting  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** time check  

**Manu Sporny:** time's up we should wrap  
… a few of us can stay and wrap  
… 10 minutes max  
… I think that's in. Adrian, are you happy taking this to the next step?  
… just the top section  

**Joe Andrieu:** yep, that looks great  

**Manu Sporny:** adrian, can you notify the group that we are done here, so the chairs know we can engage the TAG and PING  

**Adrian Gropper:** yep.  

> *Joe Andrieu:* that's a wrap

---
