---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-01-12
title: DID WG Telco — 2021-01-12
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-01-12-did",
        "name": "DID WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2021-01-12",
        "irc": "did",
        "datePublished": "2021-01-12",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2021-01-12",
            "endDate": "2021-01-12",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ivan Herman"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Justin Richer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kaliya Young"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Phil Archer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Drummond Reed"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Holt"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daniel Buchner"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Amy Guy"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# DID WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2021-01-12

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/mid/000000000000aa249905b8a26c1b@google.com) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/01/12-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Markus Sabadello, Shigeya Suzuki, Justin Richer, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Manu Sporny, Adrian Gropper, Kaliya Young, Orie Steele, Phil Archer, Dave Longley, Joe Andrieu, Drummond Reed, Jonathan Holt, Daniel Buchner, Amy Guy

**Regrets:** Daniel Burnett, Brent Zundel

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Ivan Herman

**Scribe(s):** Markus Sabadello

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Ivan Herman:** Dan and Brent sent their regrets, I will take over today..  
… We will mostly look at issues today..  
… There is no need for introductions today. Anybody wants to re-introduce?.  
… Next topic is re-joining the Working Group..  

### 1. re-joining the Working Group..
{: #section1}

**Ivan Herman:** I looked at the list of organizations, I think almost all active members are okay..  
… Sovrin Foundation has not re-joined. Among invited experts, I haven't seen Yancy in a long time, he should re-join..  

**Manu Sporny:** I will ping Yancy..  

**Ivan Herman:** Let's move to the real discussion. Let's look at priority 1 issues..  

### 2. Priority 1 issues.
{: #section2}

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Apre-cr-p1+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Apre-cr-p1+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

**Manu Sporny:** Before going to issues, we should explain something. I sent an email today. We will process issues differently..  
… We are in the final stretch to get into the Candidate Recommendation stage. To do so, we like to ensure that all issues have been processed..  
… I.e. we have either addressed all issues, stated that we will not address them, or stated that we will defer them to version 2.0..  
… The chairs sent to the mailing list that very soon we will go into a mode where we will ask individuals to volunteer to close our issues (reviewing, writing PR, ..)..  
… If the assigned person doesn't do that by the time the group wants to move to CR, then the issue will be deferred..  
… It will then be deferred to the next group working on the next version..  
… Today we will do a dry-run of this. We will go over the issues. If there are no volunteers, we will mark issues "potentially deferred"..  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/118](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/118).

**Manu Sporny:** 118 is editorial. Amy is assigned to it, I expect she will work on it..  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/292](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/292).

> *Ivan Herman:* isseu 291 [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/291](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/291).

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/119](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/119).

**Manu Sporny:** 119 is assigned to Dan, we may want to assign it to someone else due to availability..  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/199](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/199).

> *Markus Sabadello:* 199, Brent has written a PR. Is this for Drummond?.

**Manu Sporny:** .  

**Drummond Reed:** If you want to move it to me, that's fine..  

**Manu Sporny:** My understanding is you wrote the appendix that will address this issue..  

**Drummond Reed:** There is a separate issue also for the appendix itself..  

**Manu Sporny:** You are assigned. If you are not able to get the PR through, it will probably be deferred..  

> *Ivan Herman:* 529 [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/529](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/529).

> *Ivan Herman:* 495 [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/495](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/495).

**Manu Sporny:** 495, shigeya what is the status?.  

**Shigeya Suzuki:** I raised a PR, but something looks strange..  

**Manu Sporny:** Do you want to be assigned?.  

**Shigeya Suzuki:** Yes.  

> *Ivan Herman:* issue 170 [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/170](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/170).

**Manu Sporny:** 170, Mike is assigned to this..  

**Orie Steele:** As I said many times on this issue, I think it should be closed. I will probably reject any PR that removes duplication..  
… We've looked at this several time before. This is fundamental to the spec, changing it will break things..  

**Manu Sporny:** The default is, if there is not a PR, or the PR doesn't go through, it will be closed..  

**Daniel Buchner:** Our implementation doesn't use the JWK members. I'd be happy to let this issue expire..  

**Jonathan Holt:** Can I have a short summary of this issue?.  

**Orie Steele:** There are two supported key material representations: publicKeyBase58, publicKeyJwk. If you aren't using publicKeyJwk, you need "id" or "type"..  
… I had a conversation with Mike about it.. What about the values in the JWK? Should be say "kid" is forbidden? Or optional? What additional restrictions would be put on top of the JWK?.  
… If you want to know what publicKeyJwk supports, you just read the JWK spec..  

**Jonathan Holt:** Is there any inheritance from JWK?.  

**Manu Sporny:** There is nothing imposed in what you can put in JWK by the verification method..  

**Jonathan Holt:** If it is a verification method, are properties inherited?.  

**Manu Sporny:** Someone would have to raise a PR if they wanted to clarify inheritance..  
… Without a PR, there's not much to do here..  

### 3. Priority 2 issues.
{: #section3}

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Apre-cr-p2+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Apre-cr-p2+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/163](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/163).

> *Amy Guy:* manu, I plan to take this when it's time.

**Manu Sporny:** 163, rhiaro would you take this?.  
… rhiaro is assigned.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/425](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/425).

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/468](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/468).

**Markus Sabadello:** 468, I'm not planning to raise a PR. Maybe others?.  

**Manu Sporny:** This is an example of something that will potentially be deferred.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/463](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/463).

**Manu Sporny:** 463, more people should comment to it.  

**Markus Sabadello:** It can stay assigned to me.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/538](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/538).

**Manu Sporny:** 538, markus_sabadello created a PR, will assign this to him.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/539](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/539).

**Manu Sporny:** 539, drummond and JoeAndrieu contributed to this, who will create the PR?.  

**Joe Andrieu:** We don't know yet what the PR will be, we first need to get to consensus..  

**Manu Sporny:** We will try to get clear responsibility..  
… JoeAndrieu are you fine with taking this.  

**Joe Andrieu:** yes.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/404](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/404).

**Manu Sporny:** 404, ivan has PRs pending for this. ivan are you okay with being responsible for this?.  

**Ivan Herman:** yes.  

**Manu Sporny:** I think you're right we don't need a special topic call anymore.  

**Ivan Herman:** But I raised two issues on the registry. I have created the JSON Schema that I proposed to be part of the spec. Independently of that, I proposed an RDF vocabulary and SHACL..  
… I think we should discuss those two. But they are not normative, so I'm fine if they are not finalized before CR..  
… The important one is the PR on the core document..  

**Manu Sporny:** This is a sizable chunk of work, and it's important. Please everyone take a close look..  
… Now priority 3 issues.  

### 4. Priority 3 issues.
{: #section4}

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Apre-cr-p3+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Apre-cr-p3+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/324](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/324).

**Manu Sporny:** 324, Adrian unless you plan to raise a PR, maybe we assign this to someone else?.  

> *Amy Guy:* agropper: I also could.

**Adrian Gropper:** I'm fine what whatever is most efficient to address this. I'd rather not do the PR, others may be more efficient. Does JoeAndrieu want to help me?.  

**Joe Andrieu:** Happy to help.  

**Manu Sporny:** Assigned to JoeAndrieu to work with agropper.  

**Adrian Gropper:** Fine with me.  

**Manu Sporny:** jonathan_holt should this stay on you?.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/340](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/340).

**Jonathan Holt:** I'd love to hear other people's opinions on it..  

**Manu Sporny:** We could mark as pending close, and give others a chance to still work on it. Anyone opposed to closing it?.  

> *Justin Richer:* no objection here.

**Manu Sporny:** Marked as pending close..  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/380](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/380).

**Manu Sporny:** We warned this would be closed and there was no activity.  

**Justin Richer:** I don't think there is interest in removing this functionality..  
… I'm in favor of closing..  

**Markus Sabadello:** The issue is partially obsolete, since "resolveStream" has already been renamed. The issues also discusses the relationship between the two resolution functions. In my opinion, there is no need to change anything.  

**Jonathan Holt:** This came up in the CBOR section. There is a vulnerability with an unknown length of arrays. It's hard to prevent buffer overflows..  

**Manu Sporny:** Do you support closing this?.  

**Jonathan Holt:** I'm agnostic to that.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/399](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/399).

**Manu Sporny:** Marked as pending close.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/452](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/452).

**Markus Sabadello:** 399, I agree with ivan we could add some clarification for this.  

**Manu Sporny:** 452 jonathan_holt or Orie do you want to address this?.  

**Jonathan Holt:** I'll do a PR.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/447](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/447).

> *Amy Guy:* yep yep.

**Manu Sporny:** 447 rhiaro are you okay with continuing this.  

**Amy Guy:** yes.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/370](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/370).

**Manu Sporny:** 370, agropper you're assigned, can we find someone to help you do a PR, what are your thought?.  

**Adrian Gropper:** Haven't looked at it in a long time. I think we're dealing with this in the Special Topic Call..  

**Manu Sporny:** Do you feel addressing the other issue will address this issue?.  

**Adrian Gropper:** I contacted EFF recently to work on getting their objections clarified..  

**Joe Andrieu:** I agree the "herd privacy" issue touches on this..  

**Adrian Gropper:** Leave it assigned to me, I'm trying to get EFF's attention..  
… If there is going to be a PR, I will write it.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/391](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/391).

**Markus Sabadello:** 391, I raised this hoping to find someone who would write a PR. I'm not planning to write a PR..  

**Manu Sporny:** Anyone willing to write a PR for it?.  

**Ivan Herman:** Is this section normative?.  

**Manu Sporny:** No, it would be in Security Considerations..  

**Ivan Herman:** This may mean it doesn't necessarily have to be addressed before CR..  

**Manu Sporny:** Marking as potentially-defer-v2. Seems nobody is interested in writing a PR.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/504](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/504).

**Manu Sporny:** 504, shigeya do you want to give us an update on your concerns?.  

**Shigeya Suzuki:** Should be closed once 457 is merged..  

> *Markus Sabadello:* 504, assigned to drummond.

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/72](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/72).

**Manu Sporny:** 72, drummond do you want to continue to be assigned, to do a PR?.  

**Drummond Reed:** yes.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/373](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/373).

**Manu Sporny:** 373 drummond you have a PR open for this.  

**Drummond Reed:** That's correct. Waiting for the Special Topic Call..  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/386](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/386).

**Manu Sporny:** 386, this is assigned to Daniel Hardman. Someone needs to write a PR. Does anyone feel strongly about this?.  

> *Orie Steele:* I can try.

**Manu Sporny:** Assigned to Orie.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/453](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/453).

> *Amy Guy:* I'm looking at that one.

**Manu Sporny:** 453, I'm assigned, but I don't think I'm the right person to do the PR..  

**Shigeya Suzuki:** I think I could do something..  

**Manu Sporny:** Assigned to rhiaro.  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/337](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/337).

**Manu Sporny:** 337 dbuc are you going to write a PR for this, or should someone else?.  

> *Orie Steele:* please assign me.

**Daniel Buchner:** I'm a bit out of the loop how DID parameters have evolved..  
… It seems there's complexity I'm unaware of.  

**Manu Sporny:** Assigned to Orie.  
… 527, 530, 532, 523 can probably stay the way they are.  

> *Amy Guy:* 527 is a dup really.

> *Amy Guy:* I commented. Sure, I take it.

**Manu Sporny:** We're through. We marked almost none as potentially defer. If the assigned people don't do a PR, they will either be deferred or closed..  

### 5. next topic call.
{: #section5}

**Ivan Herman:** The agenda that was sent out had a mistake. It said DID Core vocabularies. Instead there was a separate email by Brent. The call will be about herd privacy and drummond's appendix. It will be on Thursday at the usual time..  

**Drummond Reed:** I want to encourage folks to come to that call. I prepared a short deck for the Special Topic Call, I'll post the link..  
… I'm hoping this will be a very productive call..  

> *Drummond Reed:* Link to a backgrounder deck on the herd privacy issue: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1z7Ml8KI1-A5tGW6pxfIqgGkdP0w0qwlsRXXk2v8Tl00/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1z7Ml8KI1-A5tGW6pxfIqgGkdP0w0qwlsRXXk2v8Tl00/edit?usp=sharing).

> *Drummond Reed:* I will also post that to relevant issues and PRs..

**Ivan Herman:** Goodbye, thank you..  

---
